# mitchell-mckee-fast-daw

1. State the problem you are trying to solve 
One of the most fun things a musician can do is jam with another musician. Being able to create music with another person in real time is something that can’t be replaced. However, the pandemic has forced musicians into online collaboration. While there have been many attempts at creating an online jamming experience, they all still have latency that causes the playing to feel unnatural. 

1.1. One type of user of this web application will be musicians looking to collaborate with each other since the pandemic. These users will first be able to easily create a quick demo by uploading audio recordings of themselves to a server and then adjusting the start times of each of the tracks they added so that they all sync up with each other. Once all the tracks have been added and adjusted, the user will be able to click a button that generates a shareable link of the demo they just created. They can then send this link to other musicians who will be able to make their own edits and add their own tracks to the project.

1.2. Another type of user will be people who want to quickly put together a demo without having to download and use a DAW. These users will be able to edit their composition with normal DAW tools such as basic effects, panning, trimming/cutting, etc… Once they are satisfied with their work, they will be able to click a button that generates a single audio track in their desired file format for them to download.

2. In terms of making the synchronized audio playback, there are other web applications that have achieved this already so I will have plenty of examples to work off of. I will also be making use of the Web Audio API which I describe in further detail below. For uploading audio tracks, users will be able to upload their audio to a database. Then using a unique id, the web application will fetch the desired audio tracks to be played back. When generating a shareable link, I will store the information needed in the url. This includes the unique ids of all the used audio tracks as well as their start times. Users will also have unique profiles where they can create and invite other users to collaborate on their projects.

3. The main API I will be using is the Web Audio API: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Audio_API. This will allow me to choose audio sources, add effects, set panning, and even allows for some audio visualization. This API provides many of the tools I require for building this quick jamming site. I will also be using another API for drum loops. One of the most convenient things to have when trying to make a song is having premade drum loops available. There are plenty of drum loops available through online APIs so I will be using those in my project.